Connector Configuration Overview and Studio Topics (#546)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/introduction/intro-connector-configuration-overview.adoc

= Anypont Connector Configuration Overview
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> :imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Reviewer: Remove this metadata from this article as well.

* An input source to start the app flow
* The authorization credentials needed to connect to the connector's data source, for example, to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Amazon S3, or SAP Concur APIs. Most connectors use the Basic (username and password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication schemes.
* A connector operation to perform the desired action

=== Configure an Input Source

To configure an input source for a connector, select an input source associated with the connector you are configuring, or select the HTTP Listener operation or Scheduler endpoint. Not all connectors have associated input sources, but you can use the HTTP Listener operation or Scheduler endpoint as input sources for these connectors.

For more information, see:

* <<introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc#input-sources, Input Sources>>
* <<http/http-connector.adoc#input-sources, HTTP Connector>>
* xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc[Scheduler Endpoint (Trigger)]

> To see if the connector you are working with has its own input sources, see the Reference Guide for that connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To determine if the connector you are working with has its own input sources, see the Reference Guide for that connector.
```

=== Authorization credentials

Connectors that connect to external APIs use the Basic (Username and Password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication scheme.

> To configure authorization credentials for a connector, it is recommended that you create a <<global-element,global element>>, which enables you to reuse the configuration for other connector instances. For some connectors, configuring a global element is mandatory.

Reviewer 2: avoid "it is recommended that you"

=== Connector Operations

Connector operations are calls to external APIs or other connectivity-related actions that a connector can perform. You can use connector operations anywhere in a flow.

> Each connector has different supported operations. To see the supported operation for a specific connector, see the Reference Guide for that connector.

Reviewer 2: avoid double "see"

[[best-practices]]
== Best Practices for Configuring Connectors

The following best practices apply to configuring connectors:

* Use a global element to define configuration details that can be shared with other instances of the connector in the flow.

> * Use property placeholders for property values if you are configuring a connector in Studio or by using XML.

Reviewer 2: "using XML" sounds weird to me.

* Test the connectivity of a connector before you deploy it.
* Configure a reconnection strategy to set the number of reconnection attempts to try after an initial failure.

[[global-element]]
=== Use a Global Element to Define Configuration Details

Global elements act as reusable objects. When you configure a global element for a connector, other instances of that connector in the flow can share that global element.

To use a global element, create one global element to configure your connection, configuration, or transport details for the connector. Reference the global element from other instances of the connector in the flow to ensure consistency across flow elements.

> Besides the benefits of reusability and consistency, global elements also make connector maintenance easier. If you must change a connector's configuration, you can change the configuration once in the global element and it will apply to all connectors that reference the global element.

Reviewer 2: "Besides" sounds strange to me.

image::introduction/intro-config-overview-properties.png[Configuring Property Placeholders]

Using property placeholders improves the maintainability of your applications because they enable you to change configuration values in one place. If you don't use property placeholders and configuration parameter values change, you must search for changed parameters in the connector configuration screens or configuration XML.

To make the values for the placeholders available, create a `.yaml` file or `.properties` file to contain the values, place the file in `src/main/resources` in the Mule project, and then reference the file from the connector configuration.

To reference a file that stores property values in Studio:

*Reviewers: I know that users can put the placeholder file in other locations, but I want to describe one way only and I think this one is consistent with best practices. Also, I don't know how to do this in Flow Designer.*

. In the connector global element *Choose Global Type* screen, search for the element called *Configuration properties*.
. Select *Configuration properties*.
. Click *OK*.

> . Click *…​* to the right of the *File* field and navigate to your `.yml` or `.properties` file.

Reviewer 2: .yaml previously

To reference a file that stores property values when configuring a connector using XML:

> . Include a `<configuration-properties>` element inside the `<mule` element.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Include a `<configuration-properties>` element inside the `<mule>` element.
```

. Set the `file` parameter with your properties file name. For example:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule>
  <configuration-properties
    file="myConfiguration.yaml"
    doc:name="Configuration properties"
    />`
  ...
</mule>
----

For more information about using property placeholders, see xref:mule-runtime::create-and-configure-your-properties-file.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders].

[[test-connectivity]]
=== Test the Connectivity of the Connector

> Both Studio and Flow Designer enable you to text the connection between a connector and its data source by clicking a button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both Studio and Flow Designer enable you to test the connection between a connector and its data source by clicking a button.
```

> In Flow Designer, once you configure the required connection values in the *Configure Connection* screen, click *Test*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Flow Designer, after you configure the required connection values in the *Configure Connection* screen, click *Test*:
```

Reviewer 2: (per Kim)

image::introduction/intro-config-overview-fd-test.png[Test the connection in Flow Designer]

> In Studio, once you configure the required connection values in the *Global Element Properties* screen, click *Test Connection*:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Studio, after you configure the required connection values in the *Global Element Properties* screen, click *Test Connection*:
```

image::introduction/intro-config-overview-studio-test.png[Test the connection in Studio]

[[reconnection-strategy]]
=== Configure a Reconnection Strategy for the Connector

When a Mule app starts, a connectivity test runs on connectors that must connect to an external server. If the test fails, the default behavior is to log a warning message and continue with the deployment of the app, instead of blocking the deployment.

You can modify this behavior by setting the number of reconnection attempts to try after an initial failure and forcing the deployment to fail when all connection attempts fail.

> To configure a reconnection strategy for a connector, use the *Advanced* sub-tab in the global element configuration *General* tab.

Reviewer 2: I don't use "sub-tab", but maybe Kim has thoughts.

The following example configures a reconnection strategy that:

> * Forces the deployment to fail if the connection fails and any configured reconnection attempts are exhausted.

Reviewer 2: I think if these bullets were imperative, they'd take terminating punctuation. But they're fragments.

* Limits the number of reconnection attempts to 5 at a frequency of every 4000 milliseconds (ms).

image::introduction/intro-config-overview-reconnection-strategy.png[Reconnection strategy example]

> To see if a specific connector supports a reconnection strategy and to obtain information about reconnection strategy settings, see the Reference Guide for the connector.

Reviewer 2: double-see

> = Anypont Connector Configuration Overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Anypoint Connector Configuration Overview
```

Reviewer 3: This topic set is pretty detailed for an "overview." 
Is there a separate topic called Configure Anypoint Connectors?

Author: There are separate topics for configuring connecors using Studio, and there will also be one for Flow Designer.

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Because a connector is a component in a Mule app, you should understand how to configure a Mule app before you try to configure a connector.

Reviewer 3: This statement led me to believe that I was going to be taught how to configure a Mule app first.
If it is a prereq, it should probably go in the requirements text, and this intro should prepare the audience for each of the subtopics that follow.

== Connector Configuration Requirements

> 

Reviewer 3: Consider moving the existing intro statement here.

Every connector has specific configuration requirements, which are described in the reference guide for that connector. Although connectors have different configuration requirements, most connector configurations require that you configure:

* An input source to initiate the app flow

> * The authorization credentials needed to connect to the connector's data source, for example, to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Amazon S3, or SAP Concur APIs. Most connectors use the Basic (username and password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication schemes.

Reviewer 3: I just sent out a Slack message about this, and it is in our Style Reference:
```suggestion
* The authorization credentials needed to connect to the connector's data source, for example, to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Amazon S3, or SAP Concur APIs
Most connectors use the Basic (username and password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication schemes.
```

* A connector operation to perform the desired action

=== Configure an Input Source

> To configure an input source for a connector, select an input source associated with the connector you are configuring, or select the HTTP Listener operation or Scheduler endpoint. Not all connectors have associated input sources, but you can use the HTTP Listener operation or Scheduler endpoint as input sources for these connectors.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to repeat that you can use Listener or Scheduler?
Maybe one sentence for source associated and one sentence for source not?

For more information, see:

* <<introduction/introduction-to-anypoint-connectors.adoc#input-sources, Input Sources>>
* <<http/http-connector.adoc#input-sources, HTTP Connector>>

> * xref:mule-runtime::scheduler-concept.adoc[Scheduler Endpoint (Trigger)]

Reviewer 3: Remind me: do we still have to modify "Scheduler endpoint" with "(trigger)," or did we decide to use only the most precise or common of the two?
In any case, I would limit modification to narrative, rather than in a title.

To determine whether the connector you are working with has its own input sources, see the reference guide for that connector.

> === Authorization credentials

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
=== Authorization Credentials
```

> Connectors that connect to external APIs use the Basic (Username and Password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication scheme.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Connectors that connect to external APIs use the Basic (username and password), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication scheme.
```

Author: It is initial capped in the GUI.

Reviewer 3: If you are quoting the UI, then these should be formatted using *:
```suggestion
Connectors that connect to external APIs use the Basic (*Username* and *Password*), OAuth, or OAuth2 authentication scheme.
```

> To configure authorization credentials for a connector, it is recommended that you create a <<global-element,global element>>, which enables you to reuse the configuration for other connector instances. For some connectors, configuring a global element is mandatory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure authorization credentials for a connector, create a <<global-element,global element>>, which enables you to reuse the configuration for other connector instances.
```
We should write under the assumption that our recommended practice is the one that we document.
You can modify this, if you like, with something like "Because some connectors require it, create...."

=== Connector Operations

Connector operations are calls to external APIs or other connectivity-related actions that a connector can perform. You can use connector operations anywhere in a flow.

Each connector has different supported operations. To view a list of supported operations for a specific connector, see the reference guide for that connector.

[[best-practices]]

> == Best Practices for Configuring Connectors

Reviewer 3: Per my comment just above, do we need this separate section?
I would think that each of these is documented in its specific context elsewhere in the topic set.

Reviewer 3: I think this list initially confused me because it repeated the advice to use a global element, which has already been described.

The following best practices apply to configuring connectors:

* Use a global element to define configuration details that can be shared with other instances of the connector in the flow.

> * Use property placeholders for property values if you are configuring a connector in Studio or configuring it using XML outside the Studio editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Use property placeholders for property values if you are configuring a connector in Anypoint Studio or configuring it using XML outside the Studio editor.
```

* Test the connectivity of a connector before you deploy it.
* Configure a reconnection strategy to set the number of reconnection attempts to try after an initial failure.

[[global-element]]

> === Use a Global Element to Define Configuration Details

Reviewer 3: How does this relate to the same advice under the authorization credentials heading?
Should they be combined?

Global elements act as reusable objects. When you configure a global element for a connector, other instances of that connector in the flow can share that global element.

> To use a global element, create one global element to configure your connection, configuration, or transport details for the connector. Reference the global element from other instances of the connector in the flow to ensure consistency across flow elements.

Reviewer 3: The first sentence is unclear to me: to use A global element, create ONE...? to configure your...configuration?
Maybe a little rewording to emphasize that you want to create one global element that can be referenced by all instances of a connector in one flow?

> In addition to the benefits of reusability and consistency, global elements also make connector maintenance easier. If you must change a connector's configuration, you can change the configuration once in the global element and it will apply to all connectors that reference the global element.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to creating reusability and consistency, global elements also make connector maintenance easier. If you must change a connector's configuration, you can change the configuration once, in the global element, to apply that change to all connectors that reference that global element.
```

> In addition to the benefits of reusability and consistency, global elements also make connector maintenance easier. If you must change a connector's configuration, you can change the configuration once in the global element and it will apply to all connectors that reference the global element.

Reviewer 4: Using "in addition to" and "also" in the same sentence is redundant. 
You can change the configuration only once?

Most connectors support the use of a global element for authentication and other functions. For information about configuring a global element for a specific connector, see the user guide for that connector.

[[property-placeholders]]
=== Use Property Placeholders for Property Values

> Instead of using static values for a connector configuration in Studio, you can use http://ant.apache.org[Ant-style] property placeholders, as shown in this Studio example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Instead of using static values for a connector configuration in Anypoint Studio, you can use http://ant.apache.org[Ant-style] property placeholders, as shown in this Studio example:
```

.Use ANT-style property placeholders for maintainability
image::introduction/intro-config-overview-properties.png[Configuring property placeholders]

* The first item is a placeholder for the Amazon SQS access key.
* The second item is a placeholder for the Amazon SQS secret key.

> Using property placeholders improves the maintainability of your applications because they enable you to change configuration values in one place. If you don't use property placeholders and configuration parameter values change, you must search for changed parameters in the connector configuration screens or configuration XML.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using property placeholders improves the maintainability of your applications because they enable you to change configuration values once, in one place. If you don't use property placeholders and configuration parameter values change, you must search for changed parameters in the connector configuration screens or configuration XML.
```

Author: I think "once" is misleading. The important point is that you can change the values in one place. You might end up changing them more often than once.

Reviewer 3: That makes sense. Edit retracted!

> To make the values for the placeholders available, create a YAML file (`.yaml`) or properties (`.properties`) file to contain the values, place the file in `src/main/resources` in the Mule project, and then reference the file from the connector configuration.

Reviewer 3: Per the Style Reference, avoid using file extensions alone. Naming the file type should suffice.

To reference a file that stores property values in Studio:

> . In the connector global element *Choose Global Type* screen, search for the element called *Configuration properties*.

Reviewer 3: Do we need "the connector global element" before "*Choose Global Type* screen"?

. Select *Configuration properties*.
. Click *OK*.
. Click *…​* to the right of the *File* field and navigate to your YAML or properties file.

To reference a file that stores property values when configuring a connector using XML:

. Include a `<configuration-properties>` element inside the `<mule>` element.

> . Set the `file` parameter with your properties file name. For example:

Reviewer 3: Per the Style Reference, avoid this fragment:
```suggestion
. Set the `file` parameter with your properties file name:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<mule>
  <configuration-properties
    file="myConfiguration.yaml"
    doc:name="Configuration properties"
    />`
  ...
</mule>
----

For more information about using property placeholders, see xref:mule-runtime::create-and-configure-your-properties-file.adoc[Configuring Property Placeholders].

[[test-connectivity]]

> === Test the Connectivity of the Connector

Reviewer 3: Is this part of the process in the order that a user would perform it, relative to configuring the connector?

Reviewer 3: I wonder if this task belongs in this topic set. 
Seems like it should be elsewhere, and that we should mention as a requirement for configuration that the connector is working....

Reviewer 3: Ah...nevermind. The config UI includes a testing control.

> Both Studio and Flow Designer enable you to test the connection between a connector and its data source by clicking a button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Both Anypoint Studio and Flow Designer in Anypoint Design Center enable you to test the connection between a connector and its data source by clicking a button.
```

In Studio, after you configure the required connection values in the *Global Element Properties* screen, click *Test Connection*:

.Click the *Test Connection* button in Studio to test the connection
image::introduction/intro-config-overview-studio-test.png[Test the connection in Studio]

In Flow Designer, after you configure the required connection values in the *Configure Connection* screen, click *Test*:

.Click the *Test* button in Flow Designer to test the connection
image::introduction/intro-config-overview-fd-test.png[Test the connection in Flow Designer]

[[reconnection-strategy]]
=== Configure a Reconnection Strategy for the Connector

When a Mule app starts, a connectivity test runs on connectors that must connect to an external server. If the test fails, the default behavior is to log a warning message and continue with the deployment of the app, instead of blocking the deployment.

> You can modify this behavior by setting the number of reconnection attempts to try after an initial failure and forcing the deployment to fail when all connection attempts fail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can modify this behavior by setting the number of reconnection attempts after an initial failure, which forces the deployment to fail when all connection attempts fail.
```

Author: That is not correct. These are two different actions - setting the number of reconnection attempts and forcing failure when all connection attempts fail.

Reviewer 3: Again, your explanation makes sense, and you should always overrule edits that change your intended meaning, after making sure that you do not need to make that more clear by tweaking the wording.

To configure a reconnection strategy for a connector using Studio, use the *Advanced* tab in the global element configuration *General* tab. The following example configures a reconnection strategy that:

> * Forces the deployment to fail if the connection fails and any configured reconnection attempts are exhausted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Forces the deployment to fail if the connection fails and configured reconnection attempts are exhausted
```

> * Limits the number of reconnection attempts to 5 at a frequency of every 4000 milliseconds (ms)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Limits the number of reconnection attempts to five, at a frequency of every 4000 milliseconds (ms)
```

.Use the fields in the Reconnection section of the global element to specify a reconnection strategy
image::introduction/intro-config-overview-reconnection-strategy-studio.png[Reconnection strategy example using Studio]

> To configure a reconnection strategy for a connector using Flow Designer, use the *Advanced* tab in the global element configuration. The following example configures a reconnection strategy that:

Reviewer 3: "...in the global element configuration..." page?

Author: Correct as is.

Reviewer 3: OK

> * Forces the deployment to fail if the connection fails and any configured reconnection attempts are exhausted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Forces the deployment to fail if the connection fails and configured reconnection attempts are exhausted
```

> * Limits the number of reconnection attempts to 3 at a frequency of every 5000 milliseconds (ms).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Limits the number of reconnection attempts to three, at a frequency of every 5000 milliseconds (ms)
```

.Use the fields in the Reconnection Strategy section in Flow Designer to specify reconnection options
image::introduction/intro-config-overview-reconnection-strategy-fd.png[Reconnection strategy example using Flow Designer]

> To determine whether a specific connector supports a reconnection strategy and to obtain information about reconnection strategy settings, see the reference guide for the connector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To determine whether a specific connector supports a reconnection strategy and to obtain information about reconnection strategy settings, see the reference guide for that connector.
```

== Methods for Configuring Connectors

> You can configure a connector using Studio, Flow Designer, or XML.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we couldn't replace this with a statement in the introduction to the topic set.
